Adding Notes for tutorial number 1 and number 2 (#36)
dwyl/learn-flutter: Flutter_TDD_Architecture_Course_notes.md

> ## Notes for Flutter TDD Clean Architecture Course Videos

Reviewer: @miguelmartins17 given that you have watched the first few videos of this course, 
you could give a quick summary at the start of the notes 
e.g: 
This video course takes the viewer through building an App that does ... [What doe the App do?]
The aim of the course is to build a basic App while following the best practices of TDD and clean architecture.

#### 1. Explanation & Project Structure

> > Video:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KjE2IDphA_U&list=PLB6lc7nQ1n4iYGE_khpXRdJkJEp9WOech

Reviewer: Space be video and link so that it is clickable:
```suggestion
> Video playlist: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KjE2IDphA_U&list=PLB6lc7nQ1n4iYGE_khpXRdJkJEp9WOech
```

In the `first tutorial` an explanation is given of the importance of having all functions tested in our application.  
It also explains the **clean architecture**.
All the features of the application will be divided into three folders, **domain**, **data** and **presentation**.
It is also explained how each of these folders works and what they will contain.

<br />

#### 2. Entities & Use Cases 

> > Video:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lPkWX8xFthE&list=PLB6lc7nQ1n4iYGE_khpXRdJkJEp9WOech&index=2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Video 2: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lPkWX8xFthE&list=PLB6lc7nQ1n4iYGE_khpXRdJkJEp9WOech&index=2
```

> In the `second tutorial` we start by adding the packages of the dependencies that will be needed to build the application.

Reviewer: what _file_ do the `dependecies` get added to?

Author: We add the dependencies to the pubspec.yaml file.

Reviewer: Miguel, answering the question in a comment does not _magically_ transfer the information into the Markdown file. 
I _know_ the `dependencies` are added to the `pubspec.yaml` file, but the people _reading_ this file don't. 
The purpose of review comments is not for _us_ to have a casual conversation, it's to _improve_ the content.

Author: I had already added that part to the file.

![Screen Shot 2020-02-18 at 10 13 32](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/27420533/74726479-6df9fc80-5237-11ea-90f6-c68bf2e5c089.png)

Reviewer: Thanks. 👍

````
dependencies:
  flutter:
    sdk: flutter

  get_it: ^2.0.1
  
  # Bloc for state management
  flutter_bloc: ^0.21.0
  
  # Value equality
  equatable: ^0.4.0
  
  # Functional programming thingies
  dartz: ^0.8.6
  
  # Remote API
  connectivity: ^0.4.3+7
  
  http: ^0.12.0+2
  # Local cache
  shared_preferences: ^0.5.3+4

  cupertino_icons: ^0.1.2

dev_dependencies:
  flutter_test:
    sdk: flutter
  mockito: ^4.1.0
  ````
  

>   It is explained how the **entity** will work in this application.

Reviewer: you've used the word **entity** but not explained what it is. 
If the video explains something, you need to _summarise_ it not just say, the "video explains".
Otherwise there is no point to making notes if you are just going to force the reader to go and re-watch the video to understand what an **entity** is. The point of _summarising_ the video is for you to use your _own_ words to explain the concepts so that you confirm your _own_ understanding. 💭

Author: I get it, I'm gonna change it.

  The following explains the function of the **use cases** that will collect data from the repositories.

>   The use cases function in this application will collect the entities and show them in the presentation folder where all the elements that we will use physically in our application are located.

Reviewer: This sentence is ***32 words*** and does not make any sense. 
Please revise it.

Author: I'm changing now.

>   #### The either Type

Reviewer: This relates to a code keyword so it should be wrapped in back ticks:
```suggestion
  #### The `either` Type
```

>   The **either** type is shown and explained with the function of being able to represent two types at the same time in this case serves for the errors and for the numbers that we will show.

Reviewer: 36 word sentence. 
```suggestion
  The **`either`** type means the function can represent two types. In this case it can be _either_ an **error** or a **number**.
```

> In which **L** are the **errors** and **R** the **numbers**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In which **Left** are the **errors** and **Right** the **numbers**.
```

> ``Future<Either<Failure, NumberTrivia>>``

Reviewer: either use _one_ back tick or _three_. 
_please read_: https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet#code

> Then it is defined the **failures** that will have an own file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new file for the **failures**:
```

> > Failures.dart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> `Failures.dart`
```

````
import 'package:equatable/equatable.dart';

abstract class Failure extends Equatable{
  Failure([List properties = const<dynamic>[]]): super (properties);
}

````

Next, define content for the `number_trivia_repository.dart` file.

````
import 'package:clean_architeture_tdd/core/error/failures.dart';
import 'package:clean_architeture_tdd/features/number_trivia/domain/entities/number_trivia.dart';
import 'package:dartz/dartz.dart';

abstract class NumberTriviaRepository{
  Future<Either<Failure, NumberTrivia>> getConcreteNumberTrivia(int number);
  Future<Either<Failure, NumberTrivia>> getRandomNumberTrivia();
}

````

Add the file `get_concrete_number_trivia.dart` to the `usecases` folder.

![get_concrete_number_trivia_file](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/27420533/74527004-92469800-4f1c-11ea-8f14-d02355c219fe.png)

> Then the **first** test will be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we can create the _first_ test.
```

> Inside the `test` folder and create another file with the name `get_concrete_number_trivia_test.dart`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new file in the`/test` folder called `get_concrete_number_trivia_test.dart`.
```

![get_concrete_number_trivia_test](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/27420533/74527183-f5382f00-4f1c-11ea-9f4f-05d501a20bab.png)

> This will be the code for the **first** test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code for the **first** test is:
```

> ````

Reviewer: @miguelmartins17 _four_ backtick characters is not supported by Markdown. 
_Please_ read: https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet#code

If you used _three_ backticks and the keyword `dart` the syntax highlighting will work.

Author: I tried to use less before but it didn't appear to me as a code appeared to be a normal sentence.

  flutter:
    sdk: flutter

  get_it: ^2.0.1
  
  # Bloc for state management
  flutter_bloc: ^0.21.0
  
  # Value equality
  equatable: ^0.4.0
  
  # Functional programming thingies
  dartz: ^0.8.6
  
  # Remote API
  connectivity: ^0.4.3+7
  
  http: ^0.12.0+2
  # Local cache
  shared_preferences: ^0.5.3+4

  cupertino_icons: ^0.1.2

dev_dependencies:
  flutter_test:
    sdk: flutter
  mockito: ^4.1.0
  ````
  
  It is explained how the **entity** will work in this application.
  The following explains the function of the **use cases** that will collect data from the repositories.
  The use cases function in this application will collect the entities and show them in the presentation folder where all the elements that we will use physically in our application are located.
  
  
  #### The either Type
  
  The **either** type is shown and explained with the function of being able to represent two types at the same time in this case serves for the errors and for the numbers that we will show.
In which **L** are the **errors** and **R** the **numbers**.

``Future<Either<Failure, NumberTrivia>>``
 

Then it is defined the **failures** that will have an own file.

> Failures.dart

> ````

Reviewer: Three backticks and the `dart` keyword so that there is syntax highlighting. 
At present without the `dart` keyword the code is just _grey_:
https://github.com/dwyl/learn-flutter/blob/20c848baa04b69e44068e9140937a3e12e068122/Flutter_TDD_Architecture_Course_notes.md
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/74646462-d4b4e280-5171-11ea-8d1d-b7c0011edfa2.png)

Author: I understood but as I said above when I was doing the summary every time I tried to use less it gave me a mistake and it did not appear as a code but as a sentence.

Reviewer: You appear to be editing in the browser. 
Try editing in Atom and use Markdown Preview. 
It's _much_ faster/easier.

    usecase = GetConcreteNumberTrivia(mockNumberTriviaRepository);
  });

  final tNumber = 1;
  final tNumberTrivia = NumberTrivia(number: 1, text: 'test');

  test(
    'should get trivia for the number from the repository',
    () async {
      // "On the fly" implementation of the Repository using the Mockito package.
      // When getConcreteNumberTrivia is called with any argument, always answer with
      // the Right "side" of Either containing a test NumberTrivia object.
      when(mockNumberTriviaRepository.getConcreteNumberTrivia(any))
          .thenAnswer((_) async => Right(tNumberTrivia));
      // The "act" phase of the test. Call the not-yet-existent method.
      final result = await usecase.execute(number: tNumber);
      // UseCase should simply return whatever was returned from the Repository
      expect(result, Right(tNumberTrivia));
      // Verify that the method has been called on the Repository
      verify(mockNumberTriviaRepository.getConcreteNumberTrivia(tNumber));
      // Only the above method should be called and nothing more.
      verifyNoMoreInteractions(mockNumberTriviaRepository);
    },
  );
}

````

> All this code will be used for the repository to be `called` and the `date` passed to the `Use Case`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This code calls the repository passing the `date` to the `Use Case`.
```

The code will give errors because the file `get_concrete_number.dart` has not been created yet. 
Then and the next step is to create that file with the following code.

> ````

Reviewer: Same again. Please use **three back ticks** and **`dart` keyword**.

import 'package:dartz/dartz.dart';
import 'package:meta/meta.dart';

import '../../../../core/error/failure.dart';
import '../entities/number_trivia.dart';
import '../repositories/number_trivia_repository.dart';

class GetConcreteNumberTrivia {
  final NumberTriviaRepository repository;

  GetConcreteNumberTrivia(this.repository);

  Future<Either<Failure, NumberTrivia>> execute({
    @required int number,
  }) async {
    return await repository.getConcreteNumberTrivia(number);
  }
}
````

> The code that appears will serve to pass everything in the `test` file so there will be no more errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code will make the `test` pass so there will be no more errors.
```

> And so the **first** test will pass!

Reviewer: Redundant sentence. 
```suggestion

```

![First_Test_Pass](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/27420533/74528160-6d9fef80-4f1f-11ea-9198-64d1aaefb3c4.png)

#### 3. Domain Layer Refactoring

> > Video:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mmq72a0h4jk

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Video 3: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mmq72a0h4jk
```

In the `third` tutorial we are explained how **callable** classes work.
First we should replace the `execute` with `call`.

> ````

Reviewer: Three back ticks + `dart` keyword. https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet#code

Future<Either<Failure, NumberTrivia>> call
````

Then we add a class to receive **random** numbers.

![Random_number](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/27420533/74589630-be3a4a00-4ffe-11ea-9212-292f0fc73567.png)

Add two `Params` to `Usecase Class`.

> ````

Reviewer: Please use **three back ticks** + **`dart` keyword**. https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet#code

abstract class UseCase<Type, Params> {
  Future<Either<Failure, Type>> call(Params params);
````
Then add these two parameters to the **get_concrete** classes.

> ````

Reviewer: Please use **three back ticks** + **`dart` keyword**. https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet#code

final result = await usecase(Params(number: tNumber));
````

This will be the code for the `get_random_number_trivia_test.dart` class.

> ````

Reviewer: Please use **three back ticks** + **`dart` keyword**. https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet#code

import 'package:clean_architecture_tdd_prep/features/number_trivia/domain/usecases/get_random_number_trivia.dart';
import 'package:dartz/dartz.dart';
import 'package:flutter_test/flutter_test.dart';
import 'package:mockito/mockito.dart';

class MockNumberTriviaRepository extends Mock
    implements NumberTriviaRepository {}

void main() {
  GetRandomNumberTrivia usecase;
  MockNumberTriviaRepository mockNumberTriviaRepository;

  setUp(() {
    mockNumberTriviaRepository = MockNumberTriviaRepository();
    usecase = GetRandomNumberTrivia(mockNumberTriviaRepository);
  });

  final tNumberTrivia = NumberTrivia(number: 1, text: 'test');

  test(
    'should get trivia from the repository',
    () async {
      
      when(mockNumberTriviaRepository.getRandomNumberTrivia())
          .thenAnswer((_) async => Right(tNumberTrivia));
      
      final result = await usecase(NoParams());
     
      expect(result, Right(tNumberTrivia));
      verify(mockNumberTriviaRepository.getRandomNumberTrivia());
      verifyNoMoreInteractions(mockNumberTriviaRepository);
    },
  );
}
````

> The test will then fail and the `get_random_number.dart` class code must be changed to the following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The test will fail so we must update the code in `get_random_number.dart` to the following:
```

> ````

Reviewer: Please use **three back ticks** + **`dart` keyword**. https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet#code

## Notes for Flutter TDD Clean Architecture Course Videos

> This course aims to create a Number Trivia App, and will show us how we can implement test driven development to all the applications we want to do.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this course we create a Number Trivia App following test driven development (TDD). It shows us how we can use TDD in _any_ App we want to build.
```

```dart
dependencies:
  flutter:
    sdk: flutter

  get_it: ^2.0.1
  
  # Bloc for state management
  flutter_bloc: ^0.21.0
  
  # Value equality
  equatable: ^0.4.0
  
  # Functional programming thingies
  dartz: ^0.8.6
  
  # Remote API
  connectivity: ^0.4.3+7
  
  http: ^0.12.0+2
  # Local cache
  shared_preferences: ^0.5.3+4

  cupertino_icons: ^0.1.2

dev_dependencies:
  flutter_test:
    sdk: flutter
  mockito: ^4.1.0
  ```
  
  It is explained how the **entity** will work in this application.
  **Entity** is related to the type of data we are going to use,
is an object about which information must be kept. In this case the information we need to keep is the NumberTrivia.  
 
The following explains what `Use Cases` will be used for.
Use cases will store all kinds of application **logic**.
In this case Use cases will simply collect data from a repository,`GetConcreteNumberTrivia` and `GetRandomNumberTrivia`.
  
  #### The `either` Type
  
  The **`either`** type means the function can represent two types. In this case it can be _either_ an **error** or a **number**.
In which **Left** are the **errors** and **Right** the **numbers**.

```dart

> Future<Either<Failure, NumberTrivia>>```

Reviewer: There is a Markdown error here.
see: https://github.com/dwyl/learn-flutter/blob/2cbeebfd43c5f1cc851627b17947b175a3435a5c/Flutter_TDD_Architecture_Course_notes.md#the-either-type
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/74724220-d8a93900-5233-11ea-96eb-0b5cc8faf88c.png)

Please _review_ the _rendered_ file yourself for consistency ***`before`*** assigning it for review.

Author: I've changed the errors.

void main() {
  GetRandomNumberTrivia usecase;
  MockNumberTriviaRepository mockNumberTriviaRepository;

  setUp(() {
    mockNumberTriviaRepository = MockNumberTriviaRepository();
    usecase = GetRandomNumberTrivia(mockNumberTriviaRepository);
  });

  final tNumberTrivia = NumberTrivia(number: 1, text: 'test');

  test(
    'should get trivia from the repository',
    () async {
      
      when(mockNumberTriviaRepository.getRandomNumberTrivia())
          .thenAnswer((_) async => Right(tNumberTrivia));
      
      final result = await usecase(NoParams());
     
      expect(result, Right(tNumberTrivia));
      verify(mockNumberTriviaRepository.getRandomNumberTrivia());
      verifyNoMoreInteractions(mockNumberTriviaRepository);
    },
  );
}
```

The test will fail so we must update the code in `get_random_number.dart` to the following:

```dart
class GetRandomNumberTrivia extends UseCase<NumberTrivia, NoParams> {
  final NumberTriviaRepository repository;

  GetRandomNumberTrivia(this.repository);

  @override
  Future<Either<Failure, NumberTrivia>> call(NoParams params) async {
    return await repository.getRandomNumberTrivia();
  }
}

> ```dart

Reviewer: You only need the `dart` keyword at the _top_ of the code block. 
Otherwise you get a Markdown fail:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/74724723-a2b88480-5234-11ea-8edd-751c6cead71e.png)

## Notes for Flutter TDD Clean Architecture Course Videos

In this course we create a Number Trivia App following test driven development (TDD). It shows us how we can use TDD in _any_ App we want to build.

#### 1. Explanation & Project Structure
> Video playlist: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KjE2IDphA_U&list=PLB6lc7nQ1n4iYGE_khpXRdJkJEp9WOech

In the `first tutorial` an explanation is given of the importance of having all functions tested in our application.  
It also explains the **clean architecture**.

All the features of the application will be divided into three folders, **domain**, **data** and **presentation**.
It is also explained how each of these folders works and what they will contain.

<br />

#### 2. Entities & Use Cases 
> Video 2: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lPkWX8xFthE&list=PLB6lc7nQ1n4iYGE_khpXRdJkJEp9WOech&index=2

> In the `second tutorial` we start by adding the packages of the dependencies to the `pubspec.yaml` file, that will be needed to build the application.

Reviewer: thanks for adding the name of the file where the dependencies need to be added. 👍

```dart
dependencies:
  flutter:
    sdk: flutter

  get_it: ^2.0.1
  
  # Bloc for state management
  flutter_bloc: ^0.21.0
  
  # Value equality
  equatable: ^0.4.0
  
  # Functional programming thingies
  dartz: ^0.8.6
  
  # Remote API
  connectivity: ^0.4.3+7
  
  http: ^0.12.0+2
  # Local cache
  shared_preferences: ^0.5.3+4

  cupertino_icons: ^0.1.2

dev_dependencies:
  flutter_test:
    sdk: flutter
  mockito: ^4.1.0
  ```
  
  It is explained how the **entity** will work in this application.
  **Entity** is related to the type of data we are going to use,
is an object about which information must be kept. In this case the information we need to keep is the NumberTrivia.  
 
The following explains what `Use Cases` will be used for.
Use cases will store all kinds of application **logic**.
In this case Use cases will simply collect data from a repository,`GetConcreteNumberTrivia` and `GetRandomNumberTrivia`.
  

>   #### The `either` Type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### The `either` Type
```

>   The **`either`** type means the function can represent two types. In this case it can be _either_ an **error** or a **number**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`either`** type means the function can represent two types. 
In this case it can be _either_ an **error** or a **number**.
```
